= point_in_time

point_in_time is a ActveRecord versioning plugin based on version_fu
that stores old versions of model objects, and allows querying by a
point in time.  It has only been tested with Rails 3.

== Installation

Add it to your Gemfile

  gem 'point_in_time'
  gem 'uuidtools'

== Usage

Let's say I have a pages table:

  class Page < ActiveRecord::Base
    # attributes: id, type, title, body, creator_id, author_id
  end

I want to track any changes made.  First step will be to add the
necessary columns to the pages table:

  class VersionPages < ActiveRecord::Migration
    def self.up
      change_table :pages do |t|
        t.change  :id, :string, :limit=>36, :unique => true
        t.string  :base_id, :limit=>36
        t.datetime :valid_start
        t.datetime :valid_end
      end
    end
  
    def self.down
      change_table :pages do |t|
        t.change  :id, :integer
        t.remove  :base_id
        t.remove :valid_start
        t.remove :valid_end
      end
    end
  end

Note that id has been changed to a string to hold a uuid; this is necessary because we need to know the object's id before we write it to the database.

Of course if you're adding this plugin to a table with existing data, you'll probably want to set base_id = id.

Now that the database tables are in place, we can fire up point_in_time.  It's quite simple:

  class Page < ActiveRecord::Base
    point_in_time
  end

Thats it.

== When to Version

By default a new version will be saved whenever any column is changed.  However, you can control this at a more fine grained level.  Just override the create_new_version? method.  For example, let's say you only want to save a new version if both the page title and body changed.  Taking advantage of the dirty attribute methods, you could do something like this:

  class Page < ActiveRecord::Base
    point_in_time
    def create_new_version?
      title_changed? && body_changed?
    end
  end


== Author

* point_in_time was hacked together by David Turner <novalis@openplans.org>. It was created for RideConnection as part of the Lowdown project.

* version_fu by Jordan McKible http://jordan.mckible.com, on GitHub at http://github.com/jmckible/version_fu

* acts_as_versioned by Rick Olson http://github.com/technoweenie/acts_as_versioned/tree/master
